[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: "Disclosure"
is one of the most highly
charged words in our community.
Is it going to happen or not?
If we're waiting for
people in high places
to admit that humanity has had
encounters with UFOs and ETs,
I would argue it's
already occurred.
Paul Hellyer is perhaps the
highest ranking public official
to speak openly
about the subject,
as the former Canadian
Minister of Defense.
I spoke with him in Los Angeles
about his lifelong efforts
at informing governments
and citizens alike
about alien encounters.
Paul, I'm so happy we
finally had a chance
to catch up to you.
We thought of flying to Canada
to find you once upon a time,
and years ago, I was trying to
hunt you down somewhere else.
And finally, we're
in the same room.
And I feel very--
>>PAUL HELLYER: At
the same time, yes.
>>REGINA: And I feel very
honored to be with you.
And thanks to our mutual
friend Paula Harris--
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --who was
able to put us together.
>>HELLYER: She is
a great gal, Paula.
>>REGINA: Oh, you bet.
>>HELLYER: One of the best.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Fabulous researcher as well.
And she keeps things honest.
And that's what we're going
to do about this subject,
because you've had a wonderful
life of public service.
And in addition to that, people
who complain about people
in public service
say, ugh, what do they
know about the world at large?
They've never run a business.
They have never done this
and that and vice versa.
But you've done the whole gamut,
and spent a lifetime at it.
Youngest person-- youngest
person in House of Commons
at the time?
>>HELLYER: At the time,
yes, when I was first
elected in 1949.
That's a long time ago.
>>REGINA: Long time ago.
Well, you were a kid.
You were in your 20s.
>>HELLYER: 25, yes.
And then still the
youngest-- when
I was appointed to the cabinet
eight years later in Louis St.
Laurent's cabinet.
I'm the only surviving
member of the government,
so that's the reason
I'm the Senior Privy
Councillor for Canada.
And it was an honor to serve
with him, even briefly.
>>REGINA: What's amazing
is just the sheer amount,
through your experience,
of history you've had,
including the history that
we're going to be talking about
that, to me, it seems
ludicrous we're even having
these conversations
still-- like gee,
shouldn't this be disclosed.
It seems like we're 10 or
15, 20, years, should be,
past that debate.
But we're still in
the midst of it.
>>HELLYER: At least.
At least.
>>REGINA: At least.
And especially considering a
document Paula passed onto me
that was authored by Einstein
and Oppenheimer saying,
OK, we're already aware
that we're being visited.
And now we need to look at
strategies as to how we engage.
That was 1947.
Right?
>>HELLYER: And we haven't
done anything about it
yet, officially or
legally or whatever.
I don't know about legally.
>>REGINA: Well, let's talk about
your personal journey in this.
So when you were Canadians'
National Defense Minister,
you weren't so aware of
that phenomenon at the time.
>>HELLYER: No, I was not.
This was a long time ago.
>>REGINA: What years are
we talking about now?
>>HELLYER: 1963 to '67.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
So talk about what you
were peripherally aware of.
>>HELLYER: Well, I
got a sighting report.
So that was about as close as
I got to the UFO phenomenon
at the time.
These came on my desk.
And they merely told me that
about 80% of all the sightings
were natural phenomena
and the others weren't.
And they were marked
unexplained, which, in a sense,
is unidentified flying objects,
because they were flying
objects and they didn't
know what they were,
so obviously, they
were in that category.
But I was really-- it
was just over my desk.
I was, at the time, trying
to unify the Canadian Armed
Forces-- the army,
navy, and air force--
and put them together into
a single defense force,
which is a job that no other
minister of defense had ever--
>>REGINA: I can't fathom
what goes into that.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
Well, it' the most
sensible thing,
because you eliminate about
10% or 15% of pure duplication.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>HELLYER: And cut a lot of
costs-- but more important,
from my standpoint,
the command structure
was straighter,
cleaner, clearer,
and so the reaction time
of the forces and son
on was much better than
it had ever been before.
So it was really a pioneering.
And it took all of my energy.
>>REGINA: UFOs were sitting
in a pile in the corner.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
That's an
understatement, actually.
And so it was a long time
after that before I really got
engaged in the UFO phenomenon.
>>REGINA: I would think
that you would have--
this is a total
aside, off topic--
but I would have thought
that you would have
to be an incredibly skilled
politician still yet at a very
young age to have
been able to unite
those factions of the military.
There has to be a lot of
jockeying for supremacy within.
>>HELLYER: It was a very,
very difficult battle.
And the fact that I
won was interesting,
because I don't think many
people would have stuck it out.
And I was encouraged to cut
a couple of times and run.
But I said, no, it's started.
We're two thirds of the
way across the river,
and we're not going to turn
around and go back now.
We're going on to the
other side, and we did.
For eight years, we had the
most efficient armed forces
in the world.
And then the new government
started changing things.
And it's been
downhill ever since.
>>REGINA: Well, it's
still a testament
to your political
skills, persuasiveness,
and just endurance.
Now, just tell us a little
tiny back story about you.
Why were you in this
position at the age of 25?
What was it about you
that's driven you down
this path your whole life?
>>HELLYER: Well, I wasn't
25 when I had this job.
>>REGINA: Not then,
but when you first
entered the House of Commons.
>>HELLYER: Well, I entered
the House of Commons
because I was
interested in economics.
And at university,
the professors,
when I asked them if recessions
and depressions were necessary,
couldn't give me
a straight answer.
What they said in effect was,
well, they always happen,
so they're part of the system.
Well, I was going to say,
any fool could see that.
Excuse me.
But that didn't satisfy me.
So I started doing
my own research
and came to the conclusion
they are not necessary.
We've never had a recession or
depression that was necessary.
They are all due to
the monetary system--
the fact that we have this
incredibly bad system where
97% of all the
money, quote unquote,
is not really money
at all, but credit.
So the economists were
saying at the time,
there's going to be another
depression-- depression-- 1950.
So I said, oh, I've got to try
and do something about this.
So I graduated in May and was
elected in June with the odds
15 to one against me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLYER: And then I found,
which any politician finds,
just because you
have your picture
in the front page of the
second section in the "Toronto
Star," the biggest
circulation paper in Canada,
that you're not a somebody
when you get to Ottawa.
And so you can't really
influence policy,
let alone financial
policy, at that stage.
But the Korean War came along.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And so they did what
they can't do in peacetime.
They started pumped money,
quote unquote, into the system.
And then we had
what we call-- we
would call the Golden Years for
about the next 20 years or so.
And they were the best
years that Canada,
and I guess many
other countries, had.
And it was only
later in the '70s
when Milton Friedman's
ideas started
overwhelming the economics
profession that things
started to go really wrong.
And it's never been right since.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And depending on how our
time flows here today,
we may have a second
conversation about this.
You've written this
book, "The Money Mafia"--
absolutely fascinating,
and it actually
ties right back to the subject
we're launching into now--
>>HELLYER: That would be good.
>>REGINA: --which has to do with
secrecy at the very top levels
and the power being concentrated
in the hands of very
few people.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So now,
let's go to when
you did start engaging with the
subject of unidentified flying
objects.
>>HELLYER: Well, that was only
about 13 years ago, and then
only as a sidebar, because
this young man from Ottawa,
Pierre Juneau, started sending
me information about it.
I said, Pierre, I haven't
got time to look at it.
He said, that's OK.
Just put it on a shelf and
keep it for another day.
And then he persuaded me
to watch an ABC special put
together by the late
Peter Jennings of Ottawa.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And here were all of
these former United States Air
Force pilots and commercial
pilots and policeman and air
traffic controllers
saying, we have seen UFOs.
I said, why would they go on
air and say that they had seen
a UFO if they hadn't?
I mean, what's in
it for them lie?
And I said, they're
not lying, really.
I think they're
telling the truth.
But still, it was just a show.
And I was interested
in it, but that was it.
Well, then Pierre sent me a book
called "The Day After Roswell."
And I said, this
should be interesting
reading for the summertime
when I do my casual reading.
And so when summertime, I looked
for it and couldn't find it
and had to settle for
"The Life of Pi," which
was very entertaining.
>>REGINA: Maybe you
weren't ready to drop down
the rabbit hole just yet.
>>HELLYER: No, not quite.
And so the following year, I
was looking for another book.
There was "The
Day After Roswell"
staring me right in the face.
So I took it and
started to read it.
And I was only partway through
it when I thought to myself,
this is the real thing.
This isn't fiction.
This makes sense to me, because
the names of the generals
and the bases, the
Air Force bases,
by then-- because it had become
the Air Force after the Second
World War-- I recognized.
And so the way it
sort of worked out,
my nephew Philip came along
and said, what are you reading?
And I told him.
He said, I'm a skeptic.
I said, OK.
That's fair enough, free
country more or less.
>>REGINA: More or less.
>>HELLYER: More or less--
certainly less now,
that's for sure.
And so he went home.
And a couple of days
later, he phoned and said,
I called the general and told
him what you were reading.
This is a retired United
States Air Force--
>>REGINA: Now, how did he have
access to calling the general?
>>HELLYER: Because they had both
been working in the aviation
industry.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HELLYER: And that's
how he knew him.
>>REGINA: When we
say "the general,"
we're not talking about
which general specifically?
>>HELLYER: No.
No, we're not being
specific in that.
>>REGINA: All right.
I mean, in "The
Day After Roswell,"
there were a couple
of generals involved
that Philip Corso talks about.
>>HELLYER: Oh, yes.
There was General
Twining and others.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
Trudeau.
>>HELLYER: This is the general.
And so he said, every
word is true and more.
So he said, where can I
get a copy of the book?
So I told him.
And it just happened, by
then, I had finished the book.
And I was really convinced
that I had a duty to go public
and say there were
some issues here
that should be in
the public domain.
The American people have the
right to know what's going on.
They have the right
to know what they've
been financing all these years.
They have the right to know what
the situation is-- and not only
the American people,
but the people
of the world, because
we're all in this together.
And ultimately, what
the US does will
affect the people of
the world from one side
around to the other.
And it just happened
that I had been
invited by a couple of
UFOlogists to speak in Toronto.
And they were Victor
Viggiani and Mike Bird,
who were very well
known in our circles
and with UFOlogy circles.
And I really had
absolutely no thought
of exceeding to their request,
because I'm not a UFOlogist,
and it didn't make
any sense to me.
But after reading the book, I
said, maybe I should accept.
The only reason I
hadn't declined already
was procrastination.
And then, of course, there
were two hurdles to get over.
One was the fact that I
was getting married a week
to the day after a symposium.
And my bride, the widow of my
former best friend, I thought
should be consulted.
So I phoned her and told
her what I was going to do.
And need I say, she was
not wildly enthusiastic.
>>REGINA: That's right.
You were putting your
reputation on the line.
>>HELLYER: That's right.
But she finally said,
if you think that that's
what you have to do, OK.
Go ahead and do it.
And I assured it would just be
a one-off thing-- get it out
in the public, and
that would be it.
Little did I dream--
>>REGINA: Yeah, here
you are 12 years later.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
So the other one was to
double check with the general
personally
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: I had met
him on one occasion.
So I got his telephone
number and asked my nephew
to give him a heads up
that I'd be calling.
So I called him.
And before I even had time
to say hello, how are you,
he said, every word
is true anymore.
And he spent the next 20
minutes talking about the more,
to the extent could.
And the more included
the fact that there
had been face to face meetings
between United States officials
and beings from other
star systems, period.
So with that assurance--
I was already convinced.
But I mean, you really
need that kind of assurance
before you go public and say--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And you were in a unique
position to have that.
>>HELLYER: Yes.
>>REGINA: That reassurance.
>>HELLYER: Right.
So with the reassurance,
I phoned Victor and Mike
and said I'll do it.
>>REGINA: Before-- we'll get
into a little bit about what
was contained in "The Day After
Roswell" for people who haven't
read it that are watching this.
But before that, once you
made that bold decision,
what happened to your life?
>>HELLYER: Well, it changed
dramatically in a sense,
because the information
started flowing
in about UFOs and ET
presence, and so on,
from all over the world.
And I got dozens and
dozens of documents.
Some of them were
pretty thin rule.
But some of them were
classified and some of them
were very, very interesting
and had a lot of information.
And I got a lot of
books, excellent books,
from reputable UFOlogists.
And I read them all.
And also, I started getting
requests to meet with people
and do something about it.
And the first one was Dr. Steven
Greer, who, in my opinion,
is one of the icons of
the UFOlogy business.
>>REGINA: I would agree.
I was at Disclosure at the
National Press Club back then.
>>HELLYER: Right.
>>REGINA: It was
an amazing effort.
No one else could have
pulled it together like that.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
And I just rate him so highly.
And he's become a friend--
Emily, his wife, too.
And I'm very concerned
about her sometimes.
And so we had a
three hour briefing
on the waterfront in Toronto.
And that was just the
first of many briefings
by UFOlogists all
over the country.
And people were
interested in seeing me.
Shirley MacLaine,
for example, tracked
me down when she was in Toronto
and said, let's have dinner.
And it just happened
that my wife was
going to Montreal that night.
And so I asked her,
she said, go ahead.
So I did, and we
had a splendid time.
Then a few days later,
she phoned and invited us
both to dinner.
And we had some pretty
good discussions
about what she knew.
>>REGINA: In UFOlogy?
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HELLYER: And she knows
quite a lot, more, I think,
than perhaps she's
ever disclosed.
But the deal was that I
wouldn't talk about it
except in general terms.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: And so
that was one of them.
Edgar Mitchell case
coming to town.
And he was introduced
by Mike Bird, actually.
They were friends at the time.
And so Sandra said,
well, let's invite
Edgar and his escort or gal
that was with him for dinner.
I won't go into the long story
about them having a broken
windshield and having
to go back to Chicago
and get fixed and all
that sort of thing.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HELLYER: But they finally
got there, and we had dinner.
And it was very interesting--
Edgar playing a little coy
and talking about Roswell.
And he said "the
alleged crashing."
I said, come on, Edgar.
>>REGINA: Quit saying
"alleged," Edgar.
Come on.
Yeah.
>>HELLYER: His face
turned all red, you know,
because he knew that
that was not really
appropriate to the occasion.
And then his next question
was, well, how many species
do you think that there are?
I said, I don't know.
I suppose somewhere
between two and 12.
And he said, yes,
that's what I think too.
But this was in the days
when we didn't have any idea
how many of there really were.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: The numbers have gone
up astronomically since then,
as you know.
So this established
a relationship which
continues on until the present.
And this sort of
thing has gone on.
And I have met so many of
the really dedicated people
in the UFOlogy business
and learned from them,
every single one of them.
I've listened to
their presentations.
I've read their books.
And this has helped
to pick up information
really exponentially, in
a way, in the 10 years--
from zero, or year zero, to more
than I can really cope with.
>>REGINA: Well, it's as though
the issue needed someone
of your stature to be able to
stand up and be able to take
whatever came with that by
way of whether-- I mean,
a lot of people, obviously,
are concerned about ridicule.
That's the big one.
And you don't really
seem to concern yourself
terribly with all of that.
>>HELLYER: Well, I felt
strongly if you know
and you think it's important
and other people know, then
you would be
irresponsible to say so.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>HELLYER: You
have to go public.
And some of the people think
you're a bit off, so be it.
I mean, I'm not
running for anything.
And I really have no
obligation to people
who think that I'm a
little bit of whatever.
And so I just go my own way
and state the truth as I see it
and let the chips
fall where they may.
>>REGINA: It's an
amazing virtue of yours,
because there are
many people that
are deeply entrenched, even
now, in the UFO community who
will deny the existence
of many aspects of it,
because they're concern
for their own reputations,
or, even worse, for
their own book sales.
And this is really irritating.
It's kind of a
fractured community.
And you're coming in
in the true spirit,
as a purist, to simply
forward information,
because of your own
positions in life
you've had access
to at high levels.
That makes a big difference.
You can really
bridge the message.
>>HELLYER: Yes, and
I think my former job
as Minister of National Defense
assists my credibility too,
because people who know that
I had no particular reason
to stretch the truth.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
and put your neck out.
Absolutely.
Well, let's talk for a little
bit, because so many people,
I think, were brought into the
fold by "Day After Roswell."
I mean, that really
was the book that,
back when I read it
in, I think, 2001,
really convinced me to start
taking all of the phenomena
more seriously as well.
And so for those who have
not read the book, which
would be a large percentage
of people watching,
can you give us some of the
main capsules of information
that Philip Corso
brought forward?
>>HELLYER: Well, I think,
most importantly, he
was also one of the first
major whistleblowers.
>>REGINA: Mmhm.
>>HELLYER: And he stuck
his neck out, way out.
And I think it was because he
too felt that the truth should
be out there.
>>REGINA: And we can set him up.
He was head of the Foreign
Technologies Department.
>>HELLYER: Right.
>>REGINA: Right?
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
He claimed to have had exposure
to the bodies of an earlier
stage in another incarnation.
But then I think it was
about 10 years later when
he became in charge
of foreign technology.
>>REGINA: Early '60s, yeah.
>>HELLYER: And what
he describes is
how he contrived to take the
stuff from his filing cabinet,
as they call it,
junk box or whatever,
and insert it into industry.
>>REGINA: And let's talk about
what some of those technologies
were.
>>HELLYER: Without saying
where it came from--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLYER: But I mean, the
people he was giving it to,
many of them would
be wise enough,
A, not to ask where
it came from; and B,
to know that it was beyond
the range of technology
that they were familiar
with anywhere here on Earth,
and that they could maybe
develop it into something that
would be beneficial to
them, both in their careers
and in their business relations.
So he did this in
a number of cases.
He spent most of his time
at it, I guess when they--
>>REGINA: So what
we're talking about
is technology that had been
recovered from the Roswell
crash and sequestered
by the military.
>>HELLYER: That's correct.
>>REGINA: Different departments.
>>HELLYER: And it's likely
that it wasn't unique,
and that the Air
Force and the Navy
were probably doing the same
kind of thing, I suspect.
I don't know.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean,
the way the story's
set up, there was a bit of a
grab right after the crash,
where each of them showed up and
spirited away different pieces
and parts.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
And the Navy had a ship that
they had recovered before.
And so there was enough of
the junk, as of course we
would call it, to
spread around to quite
a few different
industries and to get
them working on some
pretty interesting stuff.
>>REGINA: Well, we're looking
at the birth of transistors.
We're talking about highly
positioned companies,
large companies of the day--
Bell Labs, Rockwell Lab.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And on and on,
aerospace industry.
So we're talking about
beginning transistors,
laser technology, fiber optics.
>>HELLYER: Fiber optics, yeah.
>>REGINA: Kevlar for bulletproof
bests for cops down the road.
But those things didn't
exist before prior to this.
So these contracts
were all parted out.
And like you say, they had
the discernment to not ask
where these pieces came from.
And they were just released as
inventions from the industry
to the public.
No one was the wiser.
>>HELLYER: Exactly.
And this was, I
think, the main source
of the beneficial part of the
thing to the public, as opposed
to the military side,
which you can argue
may or may not have been
beneficial in the long run.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: So here, we get
the fallout in these areas.
And this is the plus side.
We probably didn't
get as much as we
should have in some other areas,
like agriculture and medicine.
But this is another story.
And this is something that we
have to keep worrying about
in the future.
>>REGINA: And now,
this is really
what propelled you along
your own path of inquiry,
it sounds to me, was you
were looking at how could we
possibly benefit from this?
It had already been
known since the '40s
that we were
collaborating, right?
>>HELLYER: Right.
>>REGINA: So how can we
benefit from technologies that
are more advanced than our own?
>>HELLYER: Yes.
But I was also concerned
about the military aspects.
>>REGINA: That's true, yes.
>>HELLYER: Because what
were the Air Force,
the United States
Air Force doing?
Were they shooting
at these people?
The answer, yes.
All of them?
I don't know.
But certainly, there
were a lot of instances
when fighter planes were watched
and followed them and tried
to shoot at them.
And they did shoot
at them, found,
in many case, that they had
protective measures that
kept them from being
shot down at that stage.
But it was also my
concern about where
this would lead ultimately,
that I was concerned about,
still am, and wanted
to know more about,
thought the public
should know more about.
>>REGINA: And yet,
the public knows
very little to this day, still.
I mean, it's shocking,
if not criminal,
that that has been kept from
our view this many years later.
And so let's talk about the
mechanism through which this
happened.
Let's talk about the
intelligence communities
that were given birth
to-- OSS, NSA, CIA,
all of it-- how this
started coming about,
and what impact that
had at large on society
once they decided that
this had to be kept secret.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
So somebody made the decision
that this information
should be kept from
the public at all cost.
And the cost has been
very great in some cases,
because they have,
in effect, taken
the law into their own hands.
They have become an
integral part of the cabal,
as I call it.
And they just ignore
ordinary laws in the sense
that if somebody talks too much,
they rough them up, threaten--
>>REGINA: Or worse.
>>HELLYER: Or worse-- threaten
to take away their pensions,
and in some cases, kill them.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: And they make this
very obvious as a deterrent.
And so this is not
the rule of law.
This is not the constitutional
approach to things.
This is an off law
situation and represents
what has become
known as the shadow
government or the alternative
government of the United
States, which
President Clinton made
very clear he didn't control,
nor have many other presidents.
>>REGINA: Yes, in his
famous statement--
there is a government that
exists in the shadows,
and I have no control over it.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
Right.
After [INAUDIBLE],
I think, asked him
a question directly of
why he didn't, in effect,
let the people always
know what was going on.
And that was his defense--
amazing statement, very true.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so they had an
operating separately.
And I think their
main connection
to the legitimate government
is the receipt of funds,
that they have
financial backing.
>>REGINA: Massive amounts
of off the books money.
>>HELLYER: Massive.
>>REGINA: Which also
interfaces with drug cartels,
the whole thing.
It's just a dark morass of
illegal behaviors and secrecy.
>>HELLYER: Quite so.
>>REGINA: Mmhm.
And at Disclosure, I think
one of the things to me--
because I was there with
Steven Greer's group-- that
was so compelling it is
to watch behind the scenes
as these, especially
the men who have been
in the military
their entire lives,
were coming forward and
breaking their security oaths.
And as they did this, I saw men
in tears after the Disclosure
and even before the
actual presentation
at the National Press Club.
And I thought, if that
doesn't tell you everything--
that these people have been
carrying this burden for so
long, yet are so
afraid even now,
after all these years
of the repercussions,
and still came forward-- I
think that spoke to me as
loudly as the testimony itself.
>>HELLYER: Yes.
And more recently, Stephen--
what's his last name?
>>REGINA: Greer?
>>HELLYER: No.
>>REGINA: No.
Stephen Bassett.
>>HELLYER: [INAUDIBLE]
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
The other Stephen.
>>HELLYER: Right,
the other Stephen--
of the 40 people he
put together in 2013,
the consensus was
that all of this
had nothing to do with
national security.
It was greed and power.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And in terms of the secrecy
itself, it was so insidious.
I remember-- now,
this was in the '80s,
as a young news anchor.
We had writers and other
reports coming across the wire
from around the world
of UFO sightings,
where a local police force
and seen it and all that.
It was absolutely
verboten for me,
as an anchor, to put that
on the air, even if I said,
come on, guys, let's put
this on-- not allowed.
And in fact, at Disclosure,
one of the people
in the room who
was there for-- I
think they were the local
ABC affiliate in DC-- when
someone in the
audience said, well,
if this is real,
how come we don't
hear about it on television?
And he stood up and
said the same thing.
He said, we know about it.
We're not allowed.
The media-- there is a
lock down on that subject.
That Peter Jennings had
the force of will-- maybe
they just thought it would
be a sweeps, big numbers
thing-- but that he
had the force of will
to be able to get
that out to the point
where it was credible enough
that even you and others
at that level said,
hm, I think we
have to examine the phenomenon,
was absolutely a feat.
>>HELLYER: It's
really frightening
that the press is so controlled.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it is.
absolutely.
>>HELLYER: So controlled.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK, now, one of the areas I
wanted to hop forward to-- you
had spoken in one of
your talks about Serpo.
And I have interviewed
Len Kasten.
And I wanted to ask you--
and we'll just a little
framework for
Serpo, because that
was a direct knocked on
effect from Roswell, right,
with the EPS, the biological
entities that were captured?
One of them did live.
The others died, right?
>>HELLYER: Right.
>>REGINA: And so one of
the little beings lived.
And there was
dialogue that occurred
between them and our
military, or secret shadow
military factions.
>>HELLYER: I think
the story I read--
and it may or may not be
EB number one-- suggested
an exchange.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLYER: And
President John Kennedy,
he decided that that was OK.
And it all started there.
And of course, the secrecy which
surrounded it was unequaled.
>>REGINA: It was fascinating
what they did to these guys.
I mean, here they put
an ad in the paper.
And these poor
unsuspecting souls--
I don't know how was
worded-- showed up,
and wow, they dropped
off everything.
That was it, off radar.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: They didn't exist
any longer once they said yes
to this project.
>>HELLYER: And the
price they paid--
>>REGINA: Oh, my god.
>>HELLYER: I read
some of the things,
like being buried
underground for several days
to see how
claustrophobic you were.
And I felt awful just
reading about it.
>>REGINA: So once they agreed to
do this project or experiment,
they wanted people who were
single, had no children,
and ideally were
orphaned themselves.
So essentially, once
they went missing,
nobody would miss them
or be looking for them.
>>HELLYER: Right.
>>REGINA: They were washed.
Their identity was
completely washed.
They were sequestered
in a federal prison.
Was it Leavenworth?
Federal prison-- for
what, a year or two
prior to taking
off on this thing,
so they couldn't talk to anyone.
I mean, this was intense.
And so ultimately,
the day came when
they, according to Anonymous--
and this, of course,
is the thing.
Who can talk about
this publicly?
So the person that's
credited with this
was involved in the project,
but they're called Anonymous.
And that's how people
tried to discredit it.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
And I think this is the way
that the whole system is worked
now-- that when
the powers that be
want information in the public
hands, that they leak it.
And then it's deniable.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: But as
far as I'm concerned,
Anonymous was doing what he
was told to do by the Defense
Intelligence Agency, because
the DIA was established,
as you know, McNamara and
Kennedy because Kennedy
was worried about CIA.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And they
wanted something
that was more transparent.
And they are.
They're showing
here 25 years after,
which is a long time to wait.
They're saying, this
is what happened
and this is how it happened.
And these are some of the things
that you should know about it.
>>REGINA: Well, and
it's phenomenal.
In nature, there's
nothing else like it
that has been admitted to.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And so
12 individuals--
pick the story up from there.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
But the interesting
thing to me is
that even though this is
in the public domain now,
nobody's talking about it.
>>REGINA: That's what I'm
saying, nobody knows about it.
And if you were to bring it
up, they'd say, oh, come on,
that's sci-fi.
>>HELLYER: Exactly.
Somebody asked me yesterday,
do you believe that?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLYER: Of
course I believe it.
And well, the 12 individuals,
and ultimately, they
were taken aboard an
alien ship, a scout car,
which was loaded with I think
47 tons of goodies of all kinds,
from weapons to little radio
sets to hundreds of records.
>>REGINA: Massive cargo.
>>HELLYER: Yeah,
all kinds of stuff.
And then the scout car took
it up to the mothership.
>>REGINA: Oh, and
guns, just in case they
needed to defend themselves.
>>HELLYER: Oh, they had guns.
Yeah, they had guns, yeah,
which they never used.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: But oh, maybe-- I
don't know if they did kill
the snake or not,
whether they used--
>>REGINA: I don't remember
if they killed the snake.
>>HELLYER: Yeah, that was a--
>>REGINA: They may
have killed the snake.
>>HELLYER: --a big upset.
>>REGINA: That was an odd snake.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HELLYER: So all
of this stuff was
loaded aboard the mothership,
and away they went, finally.
And of course, the
first little while,
when they're going through the
time warp, they were all sick.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: After they
got through that and then
the wormhole, they were OK.
And 10 months later, they had
gone 38 million light years'
distance, in 10 months, which
is absolutely incredible.
And then one day--
>>REGINA: Incomprehensible
without understanding
that kind of physics.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely,
because even
one of my sons-- bright person,
if I may say so-- just says,
you know, Einstein
said, and that's it
as far as he's concerned.
And my reaction
is well, you don't
know how much-- this is
my famous line from "Light
at the End of the Tunnel."
I didn't know how much I didn't
know because I didn't know
how much there was to know.
And it's as true
today as it was then.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HELLYER: It's just
like a scroll-- you know,
a Jewish scroll.
And it comes out and then it
goes back after the service.
But this is a scroll
that goes out both ways,
and it keeps going on and on and
on, not back, but to infinity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: So you can never
comprehend all of these things.
It's just a question of how
far you can go in one lifetime
and how much information
you can absorb.
>>REGINA: Well, this
was Planet Serpo,
the book that was ultimately
put out by Len Kasten.
And for anybody that wants to
go into the nitty gritty of it,
I did an hour or two with
him in a conversation
a few months ago.
>>HELLYER: I'm glad you
did that, because there's
so much information
in that book,
and other related
subjects, including
the influence of the
reptilians through
the secret organizations
establishing Hitler.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And effectively,
the whole Nazi movement.
>>REGINA: Which
affects our economy
to this day and
politics and the world.
That's a second conversation.
And you know what?
We've been chatting
about 40 minutes already.
>>HELLYER: Have we?
>>REGINA: And we're barely
into the subject of UFOlogy.
But what I would
like, because people
have a lot of places to
go for this research,
including your own work and
the books you've written.
Can you just kind of
give us a statement
of urgency, clarity whatever you
wish, regarding the need for us
to start embracing this
before we talk about money?
>>HELLYER: OK.
Well, I think we have to
somehow persuade our governments
to level with us.
I don't know how
we're going to do it.
But I think we have to
keep worrying away at it
and get the information out.
And people have to get
it in small chunks,
because if it all was spilled
in one day, first of all,
it would be impossible to do,
even one week or one month,
because there's too much.
But if it comes out
in small pieces,
people will be able
to accommodate to it,
and to look at some
of the alternatives.
And the alternatives,
I think, really affect
the future of humankind.
We don't know where we're going.
We don't know what the cabal
and the alternate government
has in store for us.
We suspect, and
with good reason,
that they're planning to set
up a world government which
is a dictatorship, largely
for their own benefit
and at the expense of
all the rest of us.
Interestingly enough, it is
the same kind of situation
that they have on Planet Serpo.
And so these are
the reasons why I
think we have to get
into this information,
because are we going to
continue just going along
an ignorant path until it's
too late to save our species?
There are actually
some people involved
in this prospect who
believe that they could
start a thermonuclear
war, first strike,
and wipe out the military
potential of both China
and Russia and survive.
This is absolute total insanity.
>>REGINA: It is.
And I think maybe if there's a
saving grace to understanding
that we are galactic in
nature, some of these attempts
have been, to one degree or
another, made in the past,
and it hasn't been allowed.
>>HELLYER: You mean by
the extraterrestrials?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: Yes.
But these are the
things we must know.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>HELLYER: So that
we know how to react.
>>REGINA: It's kind of
comforting, in a way,
to know if we're
not smart enough
to look out for ourselves, at
least someone else is helping
us avoid that kind of disaster.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
Unless our guys are working for
the wrong side, in which case,
heaven help us.
>>REGINA: Yeah, heaven help us.
But you know, you were
talking about this controlled
information, bits at a time.
It has been happening
through Hollywood, right?
Steven Spielberg.
>>HELLYER: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: And here, we
have "Close Encounters
of the Third Kind."
We have the show "Taken."
We have "ET."
These were all put out there
to help us, as a species,
become comfortable with the
notion that we're not alone.
>>HELLYER: Right.
Exactly.
But ultimately, if we want
to save our planet-- sorry.
If we want to save our
species, we have to change.
And especially
since World War II,
we have become so self-centered,
so grasping, so determined,
especially with the
military-industrial complex
and cabal, to start one
war after another in order
to require--
>>REGINA: Line their pockets.
>>HELLYER: Yeah, to
line their pockets
at the expense of people.
And this is wrong, wrong, wrong.
And after the Cold
War ended, we should
have had a real peace dividend.
We should have them divert
billions, hundreds of billions
of dollars from
defense expenditures
to build a better world,
a peaceful world, where
ordinary people of all
shades and religions,
regardless of who they were, had
enough to eat, enough to water
to drink and shirt on their
back and get a basic education
and a basic health
care and so on.
That's what we should have done.
The peace dividend,
it was called.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HELLYER: And some of us hoped
and prayed it would happen.
But it didn't happen.
We went the wrong way.
We made the wrong decision.
And so you have this
incredible expenditure
on space technology.
But somehow, we've got
to change our priorities,
or we could wind up
losing our whole species.
And unfortunately,
some of the ETs
don't care that much, because
it's the planet they're
really concerned about.
>>REGINA: True.
>>HELLYER: That
they're more concerned
about having it survive.
And if you destroy the surface
of the Earth, some of them
would survive,
because a lot of them
live underground or
underwater anyway.
But we'd be gone.
The only thing we can do-- and
I've ended some of my speeches,
as you know, with
saying the missing link
is a spiritual link.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And morality.
>>HELLYER: Yeah.
We have to say to sublimate our
egos and change our priorities
and say it's important to treat
other people as we would wish
to be treated,
which we don't now.
We have these people
saying, we have
to keep minimum wages down.
And I've read a piece of paper
about some state government's
going to take away
from the municipalities
the right to set
minimum wages so
that they wouldn't raise them.
What kind of viable
approach is that?
What kind of a life is that?
>>REGINA: Very
callous and uncaring.
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And so I'm with you--
a reestablishment of some kind
of larger morality--
>>HELLYER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --with a spiritual
basis of some kind.
>>HELLYER: And then deference
to the Creator and the creation.
And if we did that,
there would be hope.
>>REGINA: On that not,
thank you very much, Paul.
>>HELLYER: It's
been my pleasure.
>>REGINA: The question
is how much longer
do we feel we need to
wait to feel satisfied
that the question of alien
interface with humanity
has been addressed?
Then what?
Maybe we need to begin
asking new questions.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."